
(Haldir leads them through a set of paths in the woods until they are all on a hill overlooking Caras Galadhon.)


Haldir: Caras Galadhon. The heart of Elvendom on earth. Realm of the Lord Celeborn and of Galadriel, Lady of Light.


(The Fellowship arrives at Caras Galadhon. They walk up a winding stairway amongst the trees, towards the grand court of Galadriel and Celeborn. With a glow issuing forth from them, the Lord and Lady of Lothlórien descend to meet the Fellowship, hand in hand. Aragorn touches his head reverently in greeting. The rest of the Fellowship stares in awe)

Celeborn: The Enemy knows you have entered here. What hope you had in secrecy is now gone. Eight that are here yet nine there were set out from Rivendell. Tell me where is Gandalf? For I much desire to speak with him. I can no longer see him from afar.


(Galadriel looks at Aragorn, reading the answer in his eyes)

Galadriel: Gandalf the Grey did not pass the borders of this land. He has fallen into Shadow. (Celeborn looks at her in wonder)


Legolas: He was taken by both Shadow and flame. A Balrog of Morgoth. For we went needlessly into the net of Moria.


Galadriel: Needless were none of the deeds of Gandalf in life. We do not yet know his full purpose. (She turns her gaze to Gimli) Do not let the great emptiness of Khazad-dûm fill your heart, Gimli, son of Glóin. For the world has grown full of peril. And in all lands love is now mingled with grief.

(Galadriel looks at Boromir with a piercing gaze that he can’t stand. He starts shaking and casts his eyes downwards)

Celeborn: What now becomes of this Fellowship? Without Gandalf, hope is lost.
Galadriel: The quest stands upon the edge of a knife. Stray but a little and it will fail to the ruin of all. Yet hope remains while the Company is true.


(She looks at Sam and smiles. Sam continues to gaze at her)


Galadriel: Do not let your hearts be troubled. Go now and rest for you are weary with sorrow and much toil. Tonight you will sleep in peace… (speaks to Frodo in his mind) Welcome Frodo of the Shire. One who has seen the Eye!


(Later, back on the ground, an area has been provided for them to rest in. The hobbits are settling down. In the trees, the Elves singing can be heard)


Legolas: A lament for Gandalf.

(Merry looks up towards the trees)

Merry: What do they say about him?


Legolas: I have not the heart to tell you. For me the grief is still too near.

Sam: I bet they don’t mention his fireworks. There should be a verse about them. “The finest rockets ever seen. They burst in stars of blue and green. Or after thunder, silver showers … Came falling like a…rain of flowers” Oh, that doesn’t do them justice by a long road.


(Aragorn walks over to Boromir, who is seated alone on a great tree root)


Aragorn: Take some rest. These borders are well-protected.

Boromir: I will find no rest here. I heard her voice inside my head. She spoke of my father and the fall of Gondor. She said to me “Even now there is hope left.” But I cannot see it. It is long since we had any hope. My father is a noble man, but his rule is failing. And now our people lose faith. He looks to me to make things right and I would do it. I would see the glory of Gondor restored. Have you ever seen it Aragorn? The White tower of Ecthelion, glimmering like a spike of pearl and silver. Its banners caught high in the morning breeze. Have you ever been called home by the clear ringing of silver trumpets? (he turns towards Aragorn)

Aragorn: I have seen the White City, long ago.


Boromir: One day, our paths will lead us there. And the tower guards shall take up the call: “The Lords of Gondor have returned!”

(The Fellowship is asleep. Galadriel walks by in silence. Frodo wakes up with a start and proceeds to follow her. Galadriel walks down to her garden and fills the ewer with water. She turns towards Frodo, not surprised to see him there)

Galadriel: Will you look into the mirror?


Frodo: What will I see?


Galadriel: Even the wisest cannot tell. For the mirror shows many things.


(She begins to pour the water into the silver basin)

Galadriel: Things that were, things that are and some things… (empties the ewer) that have not yet come to pass.


(Frodo steps up to the mirror to take a look. He peers down and sees nothing but his reflection. Then suddenly the mirror clears and shows a vision of Legolas, Merry and Pippin, then Sam. He sees Bag End, then the burning of Hobbiton, the enslavement of the Hobbits and the destruction of the Shire. Then suddenly the Eye of Sauron fills the entire mirror. The Ring hanging from Frodo’s neck pulls him closer to the water. Steam begins to curl up from the basin as Sauron speaks to Frodo in Black Speech. Terrified, he grabs the Ring and jerks back, throwing himself off the step and landing on his back on the grass)

Galadriel: I know what it is you saw. For it is also in my mind. (speaks to Frodo telepathically) It is what will come to pass if you should fail. The Fellowship is breaking. It has already begun. He will try to take the Ring. You know of whom I speak. One by one it will destroy them all.

Frodo: (telepathically) If you ask it of me, I will give you the One Ring.


(Opening his palm, Frodo offers the Ring to her)

Galadriel: You offer it to me freely. I do not deny that my heart has greatly desired this.


(She approaches Frodo, her hand open. Her image begins to change)


Galadriel: In place of a dark lord, you will have a queen! Not dark but beautiful and terrible as the dawn! Treacherous as the sea! Stronger than the foundations of the Earth! All shall love me and despair!


(She returns to normal with a scared look on her face)

Galadriel: I pass the test! I will diminish, and go into the West, and remain Galadriel.


Frodo: I cannot do this alone.

(She turns to him)

Galadriel: You are a Ring-bearer, Frodo. To bear a Ring of Power is to be alone. (She holds out her hand with the ring Nenya on her finger) This is Nenya, the Ring of Adamant. And I am its keeper. This task was appointed to you. And if you do not find a way, no one will.


Frodo: Then I know what I must do. It’s just… I’m afraid to do it.


(Galadriel bends down to meet him at eye level)


Galadriel: Even the smallest person can change the course of the future.

(In Orthanc in Isengard, Saruman and Lurtz are standing in the central chamber)

Saruman: Do you know how the Orcs first came into being? (he begins to walk in circle around Lurtz) They were elves once, taken by the dark powers. Tortured and mutilated.. A ruined and terrible form of life. Now…perfected.. my fighting Uruk-Hai. Whom do you serve?


Lurtz: Saruman!


(The Uruk-Hai wear their armor and are given their weapons. They receive a white handprint on their heads and faces, signifying Saruman’s army. They then assemble before him)

Saruman: (to the troops) Hunt them down. Do not stop until they are found. You do not know pain. You do not know fear. You will taste man flesh!


(The troops growl. Saruman turns to Lurtz)


Saruman: One of the halflings carries something of great value. Bring them to me alive and unspoiled. Kill the others!


(The Uruk-Hai leave Isengard and the scene returns to Lothlórien. Each member of the Fellowship is given an Elven cloak.)


Celeborn: Never before have we clad strangers in the garb of our own people. May these cloaks help shield you from unfriendly eyes.


(Legolas is putting supplies into a boat that Merry and Pippin are sitting in. He takes a piece of lembas out of a pack.)

Legolas: Lembas. Elvish waybread. One small bite is enough to fill the stomach of a grown man. (Merry and Pippin nod in agreement. Legolas leaves)


Merry: How many did you eat?

Pippin: Four.


(Celeborn walks with Aragorn among the trees)

Celeborn: Every league you travel south, the danger will increase. Mordor Orcs now hold the eastern shore of the Anduin. Nor will you find safety on the western bank. Strange creatures bearing the white hand have been seen on our borders. Seldom do Orcs journey in the open under the sun, yet these have done so. (He hand Aragorn a dagger) Le aphadar aen. *You are being tracked* By river you have the chance of outrunning the enemy to the Falls of Rauros.


(The Fellowship sets out in boats. Through a series of flashbacks, Galadriel is shown giving each member of the Fellowship a gift)


Galadriel: My gift for you, Legolas, is a bow of the Galadhrim. Worthy of the skill of our woodland kin. (Legolas looks at the bow in wonder. Merry and Pippin unsheathe the daggers she has given them.) These are the daggers of the Noldorin. They have already seen service in war. Do not fear, young Peregrin Took. You will find your courage. And for you, Samwise Gamgee, Elven rope made of hithlain.


Sam: Thank you, my lady. Have you run out of those nice, shiny daggers?

(Galadriel just smiles at Sam without responding.)


Galadriel: And what gift would a dwarf ask of the Elves?


Gimli: Nothing. Except to look upon the lady of the Galadhrim one last time, for she is more fair than all the jewels beneath the earth. (Galadriel laughs and Gimli starts to turn away, before turning around again.) Actually, there was one thing. (to himself) No, no, I couldn’t. It’s quite impossible. Stupid to ask…


Galadriel: (to Aragorn) I have nothing greater to give than the gift you already bear. (She touches the Evenstar around his neck.) Am meleth dîn, i ant e guil Arwen Undómiel pígatha. *For her love, I fear the grace of Arwen Evenstar will diminish.*


Aragorn: Aníron i e broniatha, ad ae periatham athar i methid en-amar hen. Aníron i e círatha na Valannor. *I would have her leave these shores and be with her people. I would have her take the ship to Valinor.*

Galadriel: That choice is yet before her. You have your own choice to make, Aragorn. To rise above the height of all your fathers since the days of Elendil, or to fall into darkness with all that is left of your kin. Namárië. *Farewell.* Nadath nâ i moe cerich. Dan, ú-‘eveditham, Elessar. *There is much you have left to do. We will not meet again, Elessar.*

Galadriel: (v.o.) Farewell, Frodo Baggins. I give you the light of Eärendil, our most beloved star.


(Galadriel hands Frodo a crystal phial. She kisses his forehead)


Galadriel: (v.o.) May it be a light for you in dark places, when all other lights go out.


(Galadriel raises her hand in farewell as the Fellowship canoes down the river. They reach the great river.)

Gimli: I have taken my worst wound at this parting, having looked my last upon that which is fairest. Henceforth I will call nothing fair unless it be her gift to me.


Legolas: What was her gift?


Gimli: I asked her for one hair from her golden head. She gave me three.


(Fellowship float along the Anduin. The Uruk-Hai are seen running through the woods towards the river. The boats pass through a canyon. The Fellowship stops for the night on the banks of the river. Boromir sees something moving in the water.)

Aragorn: Gollum. He has tracked us since Moria. I had hoped we would lose him on the river. But he’s too clever a waterman.


Boromir: And if he alerts the enemy to our whereabouts, it will make the crossing even more dangerous.


Sam: Have some food, Mr. Frodo.

Frodo: No, Sam.


Sam: You haven’t eaten anything all day. You’re not sleeping neither. Don’t think I haven’t noticed. Mr. Frodo-


Frodo: I’m all right.

Sam: But you’re not. I’m here to help you. I promised Gandalf that I would.


Frodo: You can’t help me Sam. Not this time. Get some sleep.


Boromir: Minas Tirith is the safer road. You know that. From there we can regroup. Strike out for Mordor from a place of strength.


Aragorn: There is no strength in Gondor that can avail us.

Boromir: You were quick enough to trust the Elves. Have you so little faith in your own people? Yes, there is weakness. There is frailty. But there is courage also, and honor to be found in Men. But you will not see that. (Aragorn starts to turn away, but Boromir yanks him back) You are afraid! All your life, you have hidden in the shadows. Scared of who you are, of what you are.

Aragorn: I will not lead the Ring within a hundred leagues of your city.

(The next morning, everyone is in the boats again, rowing down the Anduin. Aragorn taps Frodo on the shoulder.)


Aragorn: Frodo. The Argonath! Long have I desired to look upon the kings of old. My kin.


(The Fellowship looks up in awe at the towering splendor of the Argonath. Two majestic statues, carved out of the mountain, proudly stand on each side of the Anduin. Their left arms are held aloft, their palms facing outwards in gesture of warning. Stern were their faces. The Fellowship reaches the foot of Amon Hen, the Hill of Sight. As they reach the beach of Parth Galen, Boromir looks troubled and appears to be fighting a conflict within him. The Fellowship starts to make camp)


Aragorn: We cross the lake at nightfall. Hide the boats and continue on foot. We approach Mordor from the north.


Gimli: Oh, yes? It’s just a simple matter of finding our way through Emyn Muil? An impassable labyrinth of razor-sharp rocks! And after that, it gets even better! (Pippin looks up, alarmed) Festering, stinking marshlands far as the eye can see.


Aragorn: That is our road. I suggest you take some rest and recover your strength, Master Dwarf.

Gimli: Recover my…?! Grrrrrr.

(Legolas looks into the forest around them, then turns to Aragorn)

Legolas: We should leave now.

Aragorn: No. Orcs patrol the eastern shore. We must wait for cover of darkness.

Legolas: It is not the eastern shore that worries me. A shadow and a threat has been growing in my mind. Something draws near. I can feel it.


Gimli: Recover strength? (turns to Pippin) Pay no heed to that, young Hobbit.

(Merry, returning with some wood for the campfire, looks around, alarmed)

Merry: Where’s Frodo?

(Sam, who was half-dozing, rouses with a start. Aragorn looks over the camp. His gaze stops on Boromir’s shield, lying with the baggage and he understand that also Boromir is gone. In the forest, Frodo wanders around. He stands by an immense stone head, lying with its side on the ground. Boromir, gathering wood, sees Frodo and approaches him. Frodo starts backing away, Boromir continutes to follow them)


Boromir: None of us should wander alone. You, least of all. So much depends on you. Frodo? I know why you seek solitude. You suffer, I see it day by day. You sure you do not suffer needlessly? There are other ways, Frodo. Other paths that we might take.

(Frodo starts backing away from Boromir, who continues to walk towards him)

Frodo: I know what you would say. It would seem like wisdom but for the warning in my heart.

Boromir: Warning? Against what? We’re all afraid, Frodo. But to let that fear drive us, to destroy what hope we have, don’t you see that is madness?

Frodo: There is no other way!

Boromir: I ask only for the strength to defend my people! (in anger, he throws the gathered wood to the ground) If you would but lend me the Ring…

Frodo: No! (steps back)


Boromir: Why do you recoil? I am no thief.


Frodo: You are not yourself.


Boromir: What chance do you think you have? They will find you. They will take the Ring. And you will beg for death before the end!


(Frodo turns and begins to run from Boromir)


Boromir: You fool!


(Boromir gives chase)


Boromir: It is not yours save by unhappy chance! It could have been mine! (he catches Frodo and tackles him) It should be mine! Give it to me!

(Frodo struggles to keep him away from the Ring)


Boromir: Give it to me!


Frodo: No!

Boromir: Give it to me!

Frodo: No!

(Frodo slips the Ring on and disappears. He kicks Boromir and runs away. Boromir looks around desperately)

Boromir: I see your mind. You will take the Ring to Sauron! You will betray us! You go to your death, and to the death of us all! Curse you! Curse you and all the Halflings!


(Boromir slips and falls to the ground. The madness of the Ring leaves him and he comes to his senses)

Boromir: Frodo? Frodo? What have I done? Please, Frodo.


Boromir: (from far away) Frodo, I’m sorry!


(Frodo is in the “shadow world,” climbing up onto the Seat of Seeing atop Amon Hen. He looks over the stone seat and sees the Dark Tower from afar. The image rushes towards him and his vision rise to its pinnacle where the burning Eye of Sauron stares back menacingly, the Dark Lord speaking to him in black speech. Frodo, rushing to remove the Ring, falls off the Seat of Seeing and lands on his back beneath it. He sits up, trying to catch his breath. Aragorn approaches)

Aragorn: Frodo?

(Frodo starts and turns around and sees Aragorn)

Frodo: It has taken Boromir.

(Aragorn takes a step towards Frodo)


Aragorn: Where is the Ring?


Frodo: Stay away!

(He scrambles up and retreats from Aragorn under the Seat of Seeing. Aragorn comes after him)


Aragorn: Frodo!

(Frodo stops)


Aragorn: I swore to protect you.


Frodo: Can you protect me from yourself?

(Aragorn suddenly understands why Frodo reacted like he did. Frodo shows the Ring on his palm)

Frodo: Would you destroy it?

(Aragorn, looking at the Ring, slowly approaches Frodo. The Ring begins to whisper)

The Ring: Aragorn…Aragorn…Elessar…

(He reaches out, with both hands, Aragorn closes Frodo’s hand over the Ring and pushes it to the hobbit’s chest)

Aragorn: I would have gone with you to the end. Into the very fires of Mordor.


Frodo: I know. Look after the others. Especially Sam. He will not understand.

(Aragorn nods with tears in his eyes, but then sees Sting glowing blue. He stands suddenly)

Aragorn: Go, Frodo.

(He draws out his sword)

Aragorn: Run.

(Frodo hesitates)

Aragorn: Run!

(Frodo turns around and leaves. Aragorn walks out from beneath the Seat of Seeing and finds a troop of Uruk-Hai advancing towards him. He gives a half-smile, holding his sword up to his face as an acceptance to the challenge. They attack. He cuts several down, but they force him up the stairs of the Seat. Further down in the forest, everyone is around looking for Frodo. Sam searches frantically)

Sam: Mr.Frodo!

(Suddenly, he hears the clash of sword on sword. His eyes widen)

Lurtz: (to his troops) Find the Halfling! Find the Halfling!

(Aragorn jumps from the top of the Seat of Seeing and onto the Uruk-Hai)

Aragorn: Elendil!

(Legolas and Gimli run forward from behind the Seat. Legolas shoots three Uruk-Hai; Gimli lands blow after blow with his axe)

Legolas: Aragorn, go!

(Frodo runs and hides behind a tree. Some Uruk-Hais run past, not seeing him. Across the way, Merry and Pippin hide in a space under some fallen tree trunks and bushes)

Merry: Frodo!

Pippin: Hide here. Quick! Come on!

(Frodo looks at them, anguished, then shakes his head.)

Pippin: (to Merry) What’s he doing?

(Merry suddenly understands what’s going on)

Merry: He’s leaving.

Pippin: No!

(Pippin runs out from the hiding place, towards Frodo)

Merry: Pippin!


(Merry comes after him, and they are out in the open. Several Uruk-Hai are coming down the hill, towards where they stand. They stare at them, then Merry turns to Frodo.)

Merry: (in a low voice) Run, Frodo! Go on!

(Merry cups his hands and calls out to the Uruk-Hai)

Merry: Hey! Hey, you! Over here!

(Pippin and Frodo look at him in surprise, then Pippin understands the deal)

Pippin: Hey!

Merry: Over here!

Pippin: (waving his arms hysterically) This way!

(Both hobbits run away from Frodo. The Uruk-Hai troop follows them. Frodo stares after them, unsure of what to do, then he makes a decision and runs in the opposite direction)

Pippin: It’s working!

Merry: I know its working! Run!

(Merry and Pippin run across an old stone bridge. At its far end, they stop and see Uruk-hai running towards them from another direction. The Uruks are closing in, both in front and behind. An Uruk runs up to them, raising his axe. But Boromir comes charging in, knocks the Uruk back, and kills him with his sword. He throws a knife at another. Back at the Seat of Seeing, Legolas, Aragorn, and Gimli continue to fight the Uruk-Hai. In one smooth move, Legolas stabs one Uruk with an arrow then shoots it out at another. Aragorn stabs one behind his back. Legolas shoots first 3 Uruks in a row, then one who has closed in on Aragorn. Three loud ox-horn blasts are heard)

Legolas: The Horn of Gondor.

(Aragorn runs forward)

Aragorn: Boromir.

(They run down the hills of Amon Hen towards the sound, but Uruks are between them and Boromir. A visual sweep shows some running towards Boromir, down the stone steps; the others attack Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli as they struggle to follow. Boromir sounds the horn of Gondor again)

Boromir: (to the hobbits) Run! Run!

(The Uruks attack Boromir. He kills two more. Lurtz walks slowly into view, lifts his bow, aims a big black arrow, and shoots it into Boromir’s left shoulder. He gasps for breath and the hobbits look at him in shock. Boromir drops to his knees, begins to breath hard, and looks at the hobbits. Uruks come closer, but he gives a battle cry, rises, and swings his sword at one, who falls. Lurtz growls, lifts his bow, and shoots again. A black arrow flies into Boromir’s stomach. He drops to his knees again, gasping. But he swings his sword at another Uruk and gets back up. Lurtz shoots him one more time, in the chest. Boromir falls on his knees and stays there, swaying a little and blinking. Merry and Pippin look at him in shock. With all the courage they can find, they take up their swords and attack the Uruk-Hai with a cry)

Merry and Pippin: Shire!

(They never have the chance to strike. The Uruk-Hai lift them up and carry them off. Merry and Pippin wave their arms frantically. The Uruk-Hai troop walks past Boromir. Boromir stares after the hobbits, helpless. Lurtz, now left alone, stops ten feet from Boromir and takes aim with his bow again. Boromir swallows and stares back at him. Just as Lurtz is about to let go of the arrow, Aragorn crashes into him, and the arrow flies off harmlessly. They start a fight. Aragorn loses his sword and is thrown to the ground. When he gets up, Lurtz throws his shield at Aragorn and pins him by the neck against a tree. Lurtz raises his sword and strikes, but Aragorn slips beneath the shield and dodges. Aragorn pulls out a knife and stabs Lurtz in the leg. Lurtz roars and knocks Aragorn to the ground, making him roll a few feet away. Lurtz then pulls out the knife of his leg and throws it at Aragorn, who has found his sword and uses it to bat the knife away. Aragorn closes in on Lurtz and in a flurry of swordplay, slices his arm off and then stabs him in the chest. Lurtz grabs Aragorns sword and pulls himself up on the it, closer to Aragorn, snarling. Aragorn grimaces, pulls his sword out of Lurtz, swings it wide, and hacks off Lurtz’s head. The rest of Lurtz falls to the ground. Aragorn pauses a moment, panting. He then notices Boromir. Boromir, pale and bloodied, is now lying on his back, his head close to a tree)

Aragorn: No.

(he runs up and kneels near Boromir)

Boromir: They took the little ones.

Aragorn: Hold still.

Boromir: Frodo. Where is Frodo?

Aragorn: I let Frodo go.

Boromir: Then you did what I could not. I tried to take the Ring from him.


Aragorn: The Ring is beyond our reach now.


Boromir: Forgive me. I did not see it. I have failed you all.

Aragorn: No, Boromir. You fought bravely. You have kept your honor.

(he reaches out to pull the arrows from Boromir, but Boromir grabs his arm to stop him)

Boromir: Leave it! It is over. The world of Men will fall. And all will come to darkness, and my city to ruin.

Aragorn: I do not know what strength is in my blood, but I swear to you I will not let the White City fall, nor our people fail.


Boromir: Our people? Our people.

(He reaches for his sword, but can’t get it. Aragorn places the hilt in his hand, and Boromir clasps it to his chest. Legolas finally comes running up, but stops and watches sadly from a distance.)

Boromir: I would have followed you, my brother. My captain. My king.

(Boromir passes away. Aragorn touches his hand to his forehead, then to his lips in respect)

Aragorn: Be at peace, son of Gondor.

(He bends and kisses Boromir on the brow. Gimli bows his head and turns away. Aragorn stands up, looking into the forest with a tear running down his face.)

Aragorn: They will look for his coming from the White Tower. But he will not return.

( Sam is running through the woods, towards the beach where they left the boats)

Sam: Frodo!

(Frodo stands upon Parth Galen, staring towards the opposite shore, with the Ring on his palm. Weeping silently, he recalls his conversation with Gandalf.)

Frodo: (v.o.) I wish the Ring had never come to me. I wish none of this had happened.

(as he hears Gandalf’s voice, Frodo’s expression changes)

Gandalf: (v.o.) So do all who live to see such times, but that is not for them to decide. All you have to decide is what to do with the time that is given to you.

(Frodo decides to leave. Determined to proceed with the quest alone, he closes his hand over the Ring, and puts it into his vest pocket. He pushes the boat into the river and jumps in. Just then, Sam emerges from the woods. He sees Frodo paddling away and runs after him)

Sam: Frodo, no! Frodo! Mr. Frodo!


(Sam stops on the edge of the shore, the water reaching his ankles)


Frodo: (in a low voice to himself) No Sam.

(Frodo continues to paddle away. Sam runs into the river after Frodo. Frodo, hearing the splashes, looks back)

Frodo: Go back, Sam! I’m going to Mordor alone.

Sam: Of course you are! And I’m coming with you!

Frodo: You can’t swim! Sam!


(Sam struggles to swim then sinks into the water.)

Frodo: Sam!

(Sam sinks deeper and deeper. He sees the sun shimmering up on the surface. His arms floats lifeless in the water. Suddenly Frodo’s hand reaches down and grabs Sam’s wrist. Sam tightens his hand around Frodo’s and is pulled out of the water and up into the boat. Sam tumbles in. Frodo looks at him with tears in his eyes. Sam, dripping wet, looks back)

Sam: I made a promise, Mr. Frodo. A promise: “Don’t you leave him, Samwise Gamgee.” And I don’t mean to. I don’t mean to.


(Sam begins to weep)


Frodo: Oh Sam!

(He embraces Sam and they give each other a great hug)

Frodo: Come on.

(Sam grabs an oar and they paddle towards the eastern shore. Boromir is laid to rest in one of the other boats. His sword rests with him, his shield is above his head and his cloven horn at his side. The boat slips over the falls of Rauros and then drops into the mists below. Gimli watches the boat disappear. Aragorn wears Boromir’s vambraces in his honor. Legolas shoves the third boat into the water)

Legolas: Hurry! Frodo and Sam have reached the eastern shore.

(Aragorn stands still, looking towards the shore on the other side, seeing the two Hobbits running into the forest. He says nothing but sighs. Legolas stares at him, suddenly understanding)


Legolas: You mean not to follow them.

Aragorn: Frodo’s fate is no longer in our hands.

Gimli: Then it has all been in vain. The Fellowship has failed.

(Legolas and Gimli walks up to Aragorn, who puts his hands on their shoulders)


Aragorn: Not if we hold true to each other. We will not abandon Merry and Pippin to torment and death. Not while we have strength left. Leave all that can be spared behind. We travel light. Let’s hunt some Orc.

(Aragorn turns and picks up a dagger from the ground. Then he runs of into the forest. Legolas and Gimli look at each other, grinning)

Gimli: Yes! Haha!


(They run after Aragorn. Frodo and Sam stand upon Emyn Muil, seeing the Dead Marshes and Mordor in the distance)

Frodo: Mordor. I hope the others find a safer route.


Sam: Strider will look after them.

Frodo: I don’t suppose we’ll ever see them again.

Sam: We may yet, Mr. Frodo. We may.

(Frodo turns to Sam, smiling)

Frodo: Sam, I’m glad you’re with me.